# DATA-SCIENCE-MINIPROJECT
**CREDIT CARD FRAUD  DETECTION** -
Billions of dollars of loss are caused every year due to fraudulent credit card transactions. The design of efficient fraud detection algorithms is key to reducing these losses, and more algorithms rely on advanced machine learning techniques to assist fraud investigators. The design of fraud detection algorithms is however particularly challenging due to non-stationary distribution of the data, highly imbalanced classes distributions and continuous streams of transactions. At the same time public data are scarcely available for confidentiality issues, leaving unanswered many questions about which is the best strategy to handle this issue.
The dataset here contains transactions made by credit cards in September 2013 by European cardholders. This dataset from Kaggle is available here. This dataset presents transactions that occurred in two days, where we have 492 frauds out of 284,807 transactions. The dataset is highly unbalanced, the positive class (frauds) account for 0.172% of all transactions.

The dataset was taken from https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mlg-ulb/creditcardfraud

In this project we have tried to show different methods of dealing with unbalanced datasets like the fraud credit card transaction dataset where the instances of fraudulent cases is few compared to the instances of normal transactions. We have argued why accuracy is not an appropriate measure of model performance here and used the metric AREA UNDER ROC CURVE to evaluate how different methods of oversampling or undersampling the response variable can lead to better model training. We concluded that the oversampling technique works best on the dataset and achieved significant improvement in model performance over the imbalanced data.

